Hello, middle school educators.
Let's take a few minutes to talk about
wellbeing at school.
Wellbeing isn't just a nice to have.
It's a must have for learning.
Michael Flynn says wellbeing and belonging
aren't extras.
They are at the very heart
of learning and achievement.
So what is wellbeing?
According to the World Health
Organization,
it's more than mental health.
It's about growth,
thriving and helping students develop
a positive sense of identity,
social emotional skills,
confidence and learning,
and the ability to reach their potential.
Middle school is a key time for this.
Promoting wellbeing means
creating a school environment where
both students and staff feel positive,
resilient and purposeful every day.
Schools that focus on wellbeing also build
cultural competency
and inclusivity with students, families
and the broader community.
As you know, this starts with you.
Students
notice when teachers genuinely care.
So continue
to give a greeting at the door.
Ask about their weekend
and tune in to their emotions.
This matters.
These small acts
help students feel seen, heard and valued.
Strong relationships build trust and
safety, which are essential for learning.
When students are stressed, their learning
brain's essentially switch off.
So executive functions
like problem solving, pause.
You can help by maintaining
clear communication,
teaching and modeling simple calming
strategies,
and setting clear routines.
Intentional planning also matters.
Set up your classroom for movement.
Hands on learning and opportunities
for students to explore independently.
Middle schoolers are figuring out
how to fit in while
also trying to stand out,
and your support helps them flourish.
Thank you for creating spaces
where students
can grow, thrive, and feel truly seen.